Michael Poliakov  
Professor Chaturvedi  
MGMT 467  
October 19 2025  
Michael Poliakov Unit 1 Assignment Summary  
	In the Titanic dataset, we set the objective to dive into what factors within the data led us to believe affected the survival rate of the passengers on the Titanic. Before we begin on our investigation, we must understand our dataset regarding the type of data we are dealing with and whether there is any missing information. Using summary functions in Python, we revealed that there are missing values for age, cabin, and embarked locations. Since age is a numerical value, we can use regression to predict age values to help our analysis later in the assignment. The cabin column had over 600 missing values, which we can handle by dropping the column as a whole and skipping in our investigation. Embarked locations had only 2 missing values, so instead of getting rid of the column, we deleted the two affected rows from the dataset.   
Once we cleaned the data, we used descriptive analytics to understand our data we are using and looked at the data types, which is something we did earlier as well in our regression model. Moving forward, I created EDA visualizations that would help process and understand the distributions of the different variables in the data. This is an important setup to understand how certain things look within the dataset, which would help us decide what variables to look at. Once I saw the results of our correlation matrix, I decided the most important factors would be age, sex, and pclass.  
After selecting the main variables, I wanted to investigate. The time came to dive deeper into the data to see what is leading passengers to survive or not. Sex was an obvious trend to depict, as the visualizations showed an overwhelmingly different survival rate of women against men. Women’s survival rate was just over 70% while men had a rate of around 22%. This was a staggering finding, which would be the first major insight we could draw from the dataset. To back up this insight, I created a chi-square model to show if there was statistical significance among the gender survival rate and pclass. In this model, we found that in each class, there was a significant finding that women were more likely to survive. This model led us to our next insight, which was investigating the pclass survival rate. Using interactive charts, we found that there was a noticeable trend that a higher pclass would lead to a better chance of survival. In the higher classes of the Titanic, more wealthy families were located on the ship. Even though the Titanic disaster was an accident, we noticed that socioeconomic class still affected the survival rates. Those who were able to access better class tickets later had a better chance of living. Lastly, we wanted to understand the variable, age, and how that would impact the chance of survival. In the data, I found that the younger the passenger was, the survival rate would be higher for the passenger. Diving deeper, we went through the data and found that there was a focus on allowing younger children to survive. This supports the social idea of “Women and Children first” since the data showed women and children of younger ages had a larger survival rate. In addition, I placed passengers into age groups. In these age groups, I wanted to compare the survival rate based on sex and age together. Children showed an almost split distribution, but as the age group went up, the higher survival rate went for women, while men would drop. This shows that after the age of 12, men decided to sacrifice themselves and allow women to survive. Basically, after the age of 12, the idea of children first went away, and the focus became to include women as much as possible, with older men likely doing their best to help their families survive.  
